December 13, 2014 

Dr. Nithyanandan Thyagarajan
Arizona State University
School of Earth and Space Exploration
PO Box 876004
Tempe, Arizona 85287


Title: A DISSECTION OF FOREGROUNDS IN EPOCH OF REIONIZATION OBSERVATIONS FROM THE MURCHISON WIDEFIELD ARRAY

Dear Dr. Thyagarajan,

I have received the referee's report on your above submission to The Astrophysical Journal, and appended it below. As you will see, the referee thinks that your article is interesting and that it will merit publication once you have addressed the issues raised in the report.

When you resubmit the manuscript, please include a detailed cover letter containing the (mandatory) listing of the changes you've made to the text and your responses to the report.

Click the link below to upload your revised manuscript; 
http://apj.msubmit.net/cgi-bin/main.plex?el=A5Ew7xq2A5mGB3J5A9ftdeQXnS9zT2Fvs840o0yJUDQZ
Alternatively, you may also log into your account at the EJ Press web site, http://apj.msubmit.net. Please use your user's login name: t_nithyanandan. You can then ask for a new password via the Unknown/Forgotten Password link if you have forgotten your password. 

Reviewers find it helpful if the changes in the text of the manuscript are easily distinguishable from the rest of the text. Therefore we ask you to print changes in bold face. The highlighting can be removed easily after the review.

The Astrophysical Journal has adopted a new policy that manuscript files become inactive, and are considered to have been withdrawn, six months after the most recent referee's report goes to the authors, provided a revised version has not been received by that time.

If you have any questions, feel free to contact me.

Regards,
Ethan T. Vishniac
Editor-in-Chief
The Astrophysical Journal
University of Saskatchewan
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Referee Report 
Reviewer's Comments:
This paper investigates the delay-spectrum technique from Parsons et al. 2012 as applied to observations from the Murchison Widefield Array. Both simulations and actual observations are used in this investigation, and interestingly, simulations involving different model components yield certain distinct imprints in the resultant delay spectrum. These imprints have not been documented in the literature to date, and may be of significant value for future 21cm EoR observations employing the delay-spectrum technique. They potentially enable experiments to trace back certain features in power spectra back to the foreground components from which they arise.
Overall, I think the theme of this paper is a good one. It provides pithy insights into a relatively new analysis technique. The application of this technique to data from a new telescope (the MWA) rather than the one it was invented on (PAPER) is also valuable, and helps establish the breadth and impact of this technique. Finally, simulations provide a strong foundation for understanding the interaction of the instrument and foregrounds, as viewed through the lens of the delay transform. These simulations are perhaps the most important part of the paper. They bring some fundamentally new insights about which aspects of foreground structure are most likely to impact 21cm reionization power spectrum measurements the most.
With some modest modifications, I would be enthusiastic about accepting this article for publication. The modifications I recommend fall broadly into three categories. The first, and perhaps the most ambitious, concerns defining a broader scope for the paper. The second concerns aspects of the presentation that could be improved to make it more accessible to readers who are less intimately familiar with these techniques and their application. The final category concerns several statements and citations that lack precision or accuracy and thereby detract from the otherwise fundamentally sound analysis that is conducted. I will discuss each category in more detail below.
Scope. I believe that the scope of this paper is unnecessarily narrow. Obviously, application to the MWA is emphasized here because it is the instrument under study by the authors, and indeed, observations with the MWA provide important validation of the simulations. However, I believe it is a significant oversight that the authors do not use their simulations to explore a more general context. In particular, I do not think that the the authors have adequately captured the impact of the primary beam on the characteristic "pitchfork" profile they identify in their delay-spectrum plots. Simulations with a flat beam and gaussian beams of several sizes could help establish whether the dip between the point source emission and the foreshortened diffuse emission near the horizon is a universal feature, or is MWA-specific. Is there something to be learned here about what the desirable characteristics of the primary beam might be for this type of analysis?
Presentation. This paper builds from a technique that was developed and applied to PAPER analysis in three previous papers (Parsons & Backer 2009, Parsons et. al 2012a, Parsons et al. 2012b; hereafter PB09, P12a, and P12b, respectively). Section 2 is, in fact, largely a rehash of P12a (which is not cited) and P12b. This section should state up front that it is basically following that derivation, and more importantly, I see no reason why it shouldn't follow the same notation convention, unless there is a compelling reason not to do so. This paper also neglects to put power spectra in the widely accepted units of mK^2 Mpc^3. Combined with the fact that the frequency band and bandwidth of the delay transform are never mentioned (as far as I can see), this creates unnecessary challenges for readers who have been following this technique.
Secondly, this paper dives so quickly into jargon, it is likely to leave all but the most expert readers behind. Examples include: mentioning the delay spectrum technique in the abstract without any clarification of what that means; referencing "wide antenna spacings" in the abstract; drawing the comparison between delays and lags relatively late in the paper; not mentioning what the "transverse direction" is transverse to, failing to cite the various MWA papers describing the instrument and observing strategy. I would urge the authors to carefully review the manuscript for concepts that might be unfamiliar to the general reader and invest a bit more work in trying to bring that reader along. One thing that I think would really help is a diagram that helps visualize the relationship between delay and celestial position.
Precision/Accuracy. Although I will call out specific statements that I believe to be incorrect, imprecise, unclear or misleading, I would urge the authors to make another careful read to find statements I might have missed. A large category of error that I don't think I was able to fully capture was citing papers for statements that are not quite aligned with the message of the paper that is cited. Please review the citations to be sure they are appropriate for the statement they follow.

Abstract:

1) provide some context for "delay spectrum technique"
[Response] Added a brief description in abstract

2) "even on wide antenna spacings" please explain why one would think otherwise
[Response] Added a brief description in abstract

Section 1:

3) P3: not all of the listed telescopes are considered SKA precursors. Might add HERA to list.
[Response] Modified "precursors" to "pathfinders and precursors". Added HERA to the list with a URL reference.

4) Parsons et al. 2012a "A Sensitivity Study..." is also a relevant sensitivity study
[Response] Cited Parsons et al. 2012a

5) P4: "distinguishable from sources of contamination by virtue of their inherent spectral smoothness" Pober et al. 2013 is relevant for having actually showed this.
[Response] Cited Pober et al. (2013)

6) P5: "model of scattering" scattering is a misleading word to use here
[Response] Re-worded the sentence.

7) P6: "conservative foreground strategy that has been developed" cite examples of application of these techniques
[Response] Cited Parsons et al. 2014 as an example 

8) P7: "the individual baseline-based approach" Parsons et al 2012b "A Per-Baseline..." is the appropriate reference here 
[Response] Changed the citations.

9) P8: "signature" -> shape?
[Response] Changed "... signature of the power ..." to "... shape of the delay ..."

10) "obfuscate" is not the right word here
[Response] changed "obfuscate" to "obscure"

11) "a new method for minimizing" looking ahead a bit, down weighting contaminated modes is encompassed in the inverse covariance weighting suggested in, e.g. Liu et al 2014a and 2014b. Might want to put the presented approach in that context.
[Response] Added a couple of sentences at the end of S6 to indicate that covariances estimated between delay transform bins can be naturally fed into the covariance weighted scheme of Liu et al 2014a, 2014b. See also response to #69.

Section 2:

12) Should mention that S2 is reviewing Parsons et al 2012a,b
[Response] Mentioned that we provide a brief overview of Parsons et al 2012a,b in the introduction where the one-line descriptions of sections appear.

13) Eqs. 1,2,4,5 Suggest following the \tilde V_\nu notation of Parsons et al 2012a. No need to have both subscripts and arguments (e.g. b should be a subscript or an argument, but not both).
[Response] Made minor changes to notation. Removed the vector symbol on top of vector quantities and replaced with bold fonts. Only for the first appearance the subscript are used to emphasize they are the arguments using the \equiv symbol. Subsequently, only the subscripts are used and arguments have been dropped to remove redundancy. We avoid the tilde notation in order to make it explicit what arguments they are functions of and also because the tilde notation is difficult to implement in figures.

14) P1: "We wish to emphasize that this equation is valid in general and does not involve any approximation." This is perhaps an overstatement. Maybe more relevant to name some specific approximations it does not involve.
[Response] Reworded to point out that it is valid even for wide-field applications where the sky cannot be treated to be flat.

15) Eq 2 should use a define (\equiv) rather than equality.
[Response] equality has been changed to \equiv in equations 2 and 5 which are defined as Fourier transforms.

16) Eq. 2 uses a prime on W that is not used in Eq. 4 and elsewhere. Please make consistent.
[Response] We use W' only when transforming along frequency axis to either \tau or \eta as an additional weighting function to keep sidelobes down and don't consider it as a fundamental part of the measured visibilities. Thus W' only occurs in equations 2 and 5. In section 3.4, we mention using a Blackman-Harris window function for W'.

17) P3: defining \vec u\equiv\vec b/\lambda is an acceptable (although nonstandard) usage, but this is then not compatible with defining \vec k_\perp\equiv 2\pi\vec u/D(z), because \vec k_\perp is only a 2D vector.
[Response] After restructuring section 2, definition of u is now standard and by making phase center always pointed to zenith and taking measurements only on the local tangent plane, \vec{u} is two-dimensional and all the mentioned equations are valid

18) P4: after just introducing \tau, \eta is introduced. Would help to clarify the distinction between the two.
[Response] After restructuring section 2, \eta is introduced in a subsection that clearly mentions power spectrum as opposed to delay spectrum.

19) Eq. 5 only holds under the assumption that V_uf is sampled for every \vec u (since u is generally frequency dependent). This is somewhat at odds with the definition in P3, which, through use of \vec u=\vec b/lambda, implies that V_uf is defined for a single baseline. In general, this is a very tricky and subtle issue that should be addressed carefully.
[Response] We agree this is tricky indeed. Our intention is not to work with a single baseline but with thousands of them fairly densely packed. So the equations must be viewed as being used on these array of baselines which therefore fill the aperture plane fairly well. 

20) P4: would like to see P(k) treated in mK^2 units throughout the paper and use the correct constants rather than say P(k) \propto |V|^2
[Response] P(k) is now given in units of K^2 (Mpc/h)^3 throughout the paper 

21) P5: "Parsons et al. (2012)" should be Parsons et al. 2012a, as defined above.
[Response] Changed the citation

22) P6: "due to their spatial and spectral (chromatic) structure, contaminate the received signal" I'm not really clear on why this structure is specifically called out. The structure is more relevant for how to distinguish foregrounds from emission.
[Response] Reworded the paragraph to remove this sentence

23) P6: The discussion of characterizing foregrounds in this paragraph seems out of place. It reads more like something that belongs in the introduction
[Response] Moved this sentence to introduction

24) P8: "its Fourier transform" -> "its delay transform"
[Response] Changed as suggested

25) P8: "Nyquist sampled over" -> "contains"
[Response] Changed as suggested

26) footnote 22 belongs earlier in the paper
[Response] Removed this footnote because the term lag is not used in this paper

27) I suggest a geometric figure illustrated the correspondence between delay and sky to go along with P8.
[Response] Added a new figure (now figure 1) that illustrates the radio interferometer delays and sign conventions used in the paper. 

28) P9: "transverse direction" define what it is transverse to
[Response] Defined as lying on the tangent plane to the celestial sphere

29) P9: cite Parsons et al 2012b for "horizon delay limits"
[Response] Cited Vedantham et al 2012 and Parsons et al 2012b for the horizon limit

30) P9: the "EoR window" as defined in this paper, is tailored to the MWA specifically here, but the EoR window exists as a concept applied to many telescopes. Maybe clarify that this is an MWA-specific EoR window.
[Response] Mentioned that these ideas are generic and the figure is specific to the MWA.

Section 3:
31) Would like to see an explanation of what the data are to be used for.
[Response] The overall sceintific objectives of the MWA EoR observations are specified in a new paragraph under S3.2 

32) P1: Should cite Tingay et al. 2013 and Lonsdale et al 2009 for descriptions of the instrument.
[Response] Already cited Tingay et al. 2013, Lonsdale et al 2009, and Bowman et al 2013 at the first mention of the MWA in the introduction.

33) P1: Is there an appropriate citation for the beam model?
[Response] Sutinjo et al.(2014) is the appropriate reference for beam model used for MWA. It is cited in S4.1 under instrument model. We however use a simpler model -- an array of isotropic elements.

34) S3.1 mixes discussion of real and simulated data. Would like to see these discussed separately.
[Response] S3.1 is mostly related to MWA parameters. The only reference to simulations comes in the specification of Tsys. Moved paragraph on Tsys to section 4.1 under instrument model. Also see responses to #35 and #36.

35) P3: The Tsys = 95 K statement is incorrect. Perhaps the receiver temperature is meant?
[Response] Inferring accurately Tsys from data is a subject of active work within the collaboration. For purposes of simulation and modeling the data, we just estimate Tsys from data to match it with simulations.

36) "In our work, we have chosen a Tsys that matches the thermal noise observed in the data." Perhaps this could be quantified?
[Response] Towards the end of section 4.1 under "instrument model", we quantify how Tsys is estimated from the data. Essentially, thermal noise is computed from Fourier space well outside the foreground wedge whereby the foregrounds are robustly filtered out.

37) S3.2 is there a paper that can be cited for the MWA observing strategy?
[Response] There isn't a paper yet on MWA observing strategy, only a proposal to the MWA TAC. 

38) last P of S3.2: sidereal time should be given in hours and minutes only, without minus signs.
[Response] Changed as suggested.

39) S3.3 How is the flux scale set?
[Response] Calibration is done with ~2500 sources in the MWACS catalog whose flux scale was set by 3C32 

40) S3.4 over what bandwidth is the delay transform taken? What is the center fequency?
[Response] Bandwidth is now specified as 30.72 MHz under MWA instrument description in section 3.1

41) Would like to see wedge plots done with |V|^2 put in mK^2 [h Mpc]^3 units
[Response] Wedge plots are now in units of K^2 (Mpc/h)^3

42) Would like to see a comparison of the MWA wedge with the PAPER wedge presented in Pober et al. 2013.
[Response] We discuss Pober et al. (2013) in the context of emission in delay bin close to the horizon limit termed as "edge brightening". See also response #66. A more detailed discussion is made difficult by the fact that the antenna elements are different. Hence, quantitative comparisons will not be straightforward. 

43) "This is shown later to be", please direct the reader to where.
[Response] Now we refer to Section 5.1 where this feature is discussed 

44) "Consequently, the contamination into the EoR window is also higher" please explain how this is done. This depends strongly on how steeply foreground emission rolls off outside of the wedge.
[Response] What we refer to here is that the spillover into the EoR window is proportional to emission in the wedge and thus the off-zenith pointing has higher levels of contamination. We are not referring to the steepness of the roll-off because that is the same for both pointings.

45) "Emission in the zenith pointing is more..." I don't follow this sentence. I think it is describing the orientation of the primary beam, and if so, perhaps the appropriate figure to be referenced to help clarify.
[Response] Yes, it is referring to the shape of the power pattern. Clarified as suggested.

Section 4: 

46) Figure 3: Should clarify that even though the beam is phased off-zenith, the delay spectrum is still phased to zenith.
[Response] Clarified as suggested in the figure caption (now figure 4).

47) Figure 3: As mentioned before, please use mK^2 [h^-1 Mpc]^3 units
[Response] Changed units to K^2 (Mpc/h)^3 (now figure 4)

48) Figure 4: what are the units? Power?
[Response] The power pattern is unitless (now figure 5)

49) S4.2 "a point also supported by Pober et al ..." Is there an appropriate LOFAR reference in support of this as well?
[Response] We are not aware of LOFAR papers that emphasize effect of foregrounds from outside of primary beam on the power spectrum. We did find Yatawatta et al.(2013) discuss subtracting bright sources far away from primary field of view (only out to about 30 degrees away) but that is from the point of view of imaging, whereas Pober et al.(2015) (in prep.) specifically addresses the effect on the power spectrum.

50) "to avoid any artifacts from sampling this map" What artifacts are you referring to? Why is it necessary to deviate from the GSM?
[Response] We are referring to artifacts from undersampling. In this process or anywhere else, we do not deviate from the GSM. 

51) S4.2.2 "known to be devoid of" do you mean devoid, or just that it is missing some?
[Response] We mean bright point sources are knwon to have been removed from the input data sets used in making the GSM. Slightly re-worded this sentence.

52) S4.2.2 0^\circ.85 mixing decimal and arcmin within this paragraph. please use only deg, arcmin, arc sec.
[Response] Mixing of units was not meant but anyway changed as suggested. For instance, 0^\circ .85 is now replaced with 0.85^\circ

53) S4.2.2 "we select point sources whose deconvolved major axes are equal to 0" please indicate what this implies, and why you chose these criteria.
[Response] This is to indicate a strict selection of point sources based on the deconvolved major axis. Modified the sentence to indicate reason for this choice.

54) "an all-sky foreground model consisting of both compact and diffuse emission", all-sky might be an overstatement, since neither of these catalogs cover the entire sky. This may be the first place in the text that "compact" is used to mean point-source. Is there a reason not to use "point source"? Compact does quite capture what is meant.
[Response] The NVSS and SUMSS catalogs are used only for bright point sources (>= 10 Jy) and at that flux density threshold it is reasonable to say that together they cover the entire sky. We use compact and point sources interchangeably. It depends on what follows the word -- if we are referring to emission we find it convenient to use "compact emission" whereas if we refer to the object itself, we prefer "point sources" instead of compact sources because the latter generally are used to refer to objects such as black holes, neutron stars, etc.

55) S4.3 "the fractional error in the delay spectrum" in what aspect of the delay spectrum? The amplitude?
[Response] Yes, we mean the amplitude using the usual error propagation. Modified the sentence to make this clear. 

56) A lot of effort is spent quantifying the expected difference between simulations and models (and it is large!), but then you say "Our primary objective is to explore ... the foreground wedge". I would suggest saying that earlier and maybe explain why it is necessary to quantify the amplitude discrepancy between data and simulation, if indeed it is necessary.
[Response] There are two primary objectives. One is to model foregrounds to match data to within expected level of mismatch (which is what we demonstrate up until that point). After that point, the next major objective is to explore the foreground wedge in detail through detailed simulations. The sentence has been modified in a way that none of these objectives is de-emphasized.

Section 5:
57) "The resulting sky emission is anisotropic" this probably doesn't warrant saying.
[Response] Removed this sentence as suggested.

58) "Baseline Orientation" it would be helpful to have a better motivation for the cuts you make in baseline orientation.
[Response] It is to make sure the bin centers are aligned along the cardinal and ordinal directions in one half-plane, namely, SE, E, NE, and N.

59) What is meant by "in any observing mode that tracks the object"? What object?
[Response] replaced "object" with "pointing center"

60) I would like to see an exploration of simulated wedges with a few different beam patterns, particularly a flat (unity) one.
[Response] A new section "Role of Antenna Geometry" has been added which discusses the effect different antenna beam patterns can have on delay spectrum. 

61) 5.1.1 "The signature is absent in the zenith pointing (bottom panel, Figure 8)". I'm not sure it is absent. I see some structure along the negative horizon delay.
[Response] Yes, there is a faint branch along the negative horizon delay but we are referring to the bright branch which is specifically due to the Galactic center. Qualified the sentence with "bright signature" being absent. This is now figure 9.

62) 5.1.2 Should probably mention "resolving" structure earlier in the paper, and how that works for an interferometer.
[Response] Added a couple of sentences at the beginning of S5.1.2 to indicate the Fourier relationship means larger scale diffuse emission is measured only on shorter baselines. 

63) 5.1.3 "In the wide-field observations of the MWA" it is unnecessary to restrict this statement to just the MWA
[Response] Modified it to be a generic statement as suggested.

64) 5.1.3 I think it might be a good idea to project the MWA beam into delay space and see how that structure compares to what you observe in your simulations.
[Response] We discuss this under the new section "Role of Antenna Geometry". We find that the delay spectrum of only the beam pattern looks very similar to that from diffuse emission. 

65) The errors described in S5.3 and illustrated in Fig 10 seem distracting. Is the purpose of this paper to quantify the absolute levels of foreground contamination, or is it to describe the relative occupancy (the shape) of foreground contamination? If the latter, than perhaps the errors associated with the uncertainty in spectral index could be dropped?
[Response] Our objective is two-fold. One is to show our simulations match the data reasonably. Our error estimates are used to define what is considered reasonable and we confirm indeed they are reasonably matched. After that point, our objective is to describe the foreground features in the wedge. Figure 10 (now figure 11) is also intended to serve as a prediction that with longer integration, thermal noise floor in the figure also lowers and thus the pitchfork features should become more obvious in data. The text and caption describing figure 10 (now figure 11) has been re-worded to place lesser emphasis on the uncertainty.

66) I would like to see more discussion of whether the pitchfork is or is not present in Pober et al. 2013.
[Response] We believe it is present but at levels lower than that of the Galactic plane. But it is unclear from Pober et al 2013 to be able to quantify what part of it comes from the non-Galactic plane diffuse emission. We have added a paragraph in S5.1.3 to discuss a similar feature seen in Pober et al 2013 and Thyagarajan et al 2013. 

67) "we predict the presence of a three-pronged pitchfork", as above, are we really sure that this shape generalizes across instrument? Can you provide more evidence that it does?
[Response] The new section "Role of Antenna Geometry" shows delay spectra for different antenna shapes, namely, dipole, phased array, and dish and show that the pitchfork mechanism is indeed generic to all wide-field measurements. The precise amplitude of the pitchfork, of course, depends on the antenna beam properties.

Section 6:
68) "the spillover caused by the instrument's transfer function"... this statement is not supported by anything mentioned so far. Please support.
[Response] The instrumental spectral transfer function refers to the response of the instrumental bandpass shape as a convolution in delay transform equation. We have mentioned this to have been discussed in Parsons et al 2012b and Thyagarajan 2013 in section 2 while describing the Fourier space coordinates. Modified text in a few places to emphasize that the transfer function we are emphasizing is in the spectral direction and not the one due to the primary beam although we take into account the full nature of this transfer function.

69) "These can be weighted appropriately during data analysis", should perhaps discuss inverse covariance weighting and how these simulations could inform that for optimal weighting. This is mentioned briefly at the end of this section, but that could be elaborated on.
[Response] Added a couple of sentences at the end of S6 to indicate that covariances estimated between delay transform bins can be naturally fed into the covariance weighted scheme of Liu et al 2014a, 2014b. Also related to #11.

70) You mention a threshold of baseline lengths at 30m. What motivates this specific length? How sharply does the effect appear on short baselines?
[Response] Removal of baselines longer than 30m has no further effect on foreground contamination. The plot with stars joined by solid line in Figure 13 (now figure 14) shows how the foreground contamination is mitigated progressively as eastward baselines are discarded from short ones to long ones. We have added a sentence stating our motivation for the choice of 30 m. It must be emphasized that we do not mean all baselines < 30m are discarded. Only the eastward baselines of lengths < 30m are discarded.

71) "the latter limit is achieved with a mere 5% loss" this is an MWA-specific statement and should be qualified as such. 
[Response] Modified as suggested in the text at the end of section 6 "Applications". Also modified the conclusions to make it a generic statement that such a technique "potentially mitigate foregrounds significantly".

Section 7:

72) "Simulating in all important respects the response of the MWA" this is a bold statement. Perhaps temper it?
[Response] Changed "all" to "many" leaving room for improvements to simulations.

