Overall Response:

We thank the referee for the very valuable comments that have helped substantially improving the narrative of the paper. 

The draft has undergone a major revision where we now present our paper as generically applicable to wide-field instruments pursuing the detection of EoR power spectrum. Most notably, we have added new sections on "Wide-field measurements" and simulations of a variety of antenna parameters upfront. In addition to these generic simulations, we present the MWA data modeling as an example of the depth to which foreground signature analysis can be performed. We have therefore expanded the scope of this paper to be able to comment on antenna design for upcoming EoR experiments. The current narrative is to emphasize on effects modern wide-field measurements will be subjected to, investigate the role of different antenna shapes from foreground contamination viewpoint and then dive into data modeling using MWA example before providing inputs for power spectrum analysis techniques in order to mitigate foreground contamination.

We have given our best effort to improve the presentation, readability and accuracy of our paper. Lots of sections and figures have been reorganized. Notations have been changed to be compatible with earlier studies. Units have been changed to be standard cosmological units. Citations have been verified and provided appropriately. 

We address below the specific comments and most of these have been highlighted in the new draft in bold face. We hope we have addressed all the concerns of the referee satisfactorily.

Specific Responses:

Abstract:

1) provide some context for "delay spectrum technique"
[Response] Added a brief description in abstract

2) "even on wide antenna spacings" please explain why one would think otherwise
[Response] Added a brief description in abstract

Section 1:

3) P3: not all of the listed telescopes are considered SKA precursors. Might add HERA to list.
[Response] Modified "precursors" to "pathfinders and precursors". Added HERA to the list with a URL reference.

4) Parsons et al. 2012a "A Sensitivity Study..." is also a relevant sensitivity study
[Response] Cited Parsons et al. 2012a

5) P4: "distinguishable from sources of contamination by virtue of their inherent spectral smoothness" Pober et al. 2013 is relevant for having actually showed this.
[Response] Cited Pober et al. (2013)

6) P5: "model of scattering" scattering is a misleading word to use here
[Response] Re-worded the sentence.

7) P6: "conservative foreground strategy that has been developed" cite examples of application of these techniques
[Response] Cited Parsons et al. 2014 as an example 

8) P7: "the individual baseline-based approach" Parsons et al 2012b "A Per-Baseline..." is the appropriate reference here 
[Response] Changed the citations.

9) P8: "signature" -> shape?
[Response] Changed "... signature of the power ..." to "... shape of the delay ..."

10) "obfuscate" is not the right word here
[Response] changed "obfuscate" to "obscure"

11) "a new method for minimizing" looking ahead a bit, down weighting contaminated modes is encompassed in the inverse covariance weighting suggested in, e.g. Liu et al 2014a and 2014b. Might want to put the presented approach in that context.
[Response] Added a couple of sentences at the end of S6 to indicate that covariances estimated between delay transform bins can be naturally fed into the covariance weighted scheme of Liu et al 2014a, 2014b. See also response to #69.

Section 2:

12) Should mention that S2 is reviewing Parsons et al 2012a,b
[Response] Mentioned at the beginning of S2 that we provide a brief overview of Parsons et al 2012a,b.

13) Eqs. 1,2,4,5 Suggest following the \tilde V_\nu notation of Parsons et al 2012a. No need to have both subscripts and arguments (e.g. b should be a subscript or an argument, but not both).
[Response] Changed notation to be consistent with Parsons et al 2012a.

14) P1: "We wish to emphasize that this equation is valid in general and does not involve any approximation." This is perhaps an overstatement. Maybe more relevant to name some specific approximations it does not involve.
[Response] Reworded to point out that it is valid even for wide-field applications where the sky cannot be treated to be flat.

15) Eq 2 should use a define (\equiv) rather than equality.
[Response] equality has been changed to \equiv in equations 2 and B4 which are defined as inverse Fourier transforms.

16) Eq. 2 uses a prime on W that is not used in Eq. 4 and elsewhere. Please make consistent.
[Response] W_f has been changed to W_i(f) to denote instrumental weights such as bandpass and RFI flagging that are more intrinsic to measurements. W'_f has been changed to W(f) to denote spectral window weighting applied during analysis. We use W(f) only when transforming along frequency axis to either \tau or \eta as an additional weighting function to keep sidelobes down and don't consider it as an intrinsic part of the measured visibilities. Thus W(f) only occurs in equations 2 and B4. In section 2.2, we mention using a Blackman-Harris window function for W(f).

17) P3: defining \vec u\equiv\vec b/\lambda is an acceptable (although nonstandard) usage, but this is then not compatible with defining \vec k_\perp\equiv 2\pi\vec u/D(z), because \vec k_\perp is only a 2D vector.
[Response] After restructuring section 2 and adding appendix B, definition of u is now standard and by making phase center always pointed to zenith and taking measurements only on the local tangent plane, \vec{u} is two-dimensional and all the mentioned equations are valid.

18) P4: after just introducing \tau, \eta is introduced. Would help to clarify the distinction between the two.
[Response] After restructuring section 2, which now only emphasizes \tau, the discussion of \eta has been moved to appendix B. \eta is introduced in the appendix that clearly mentions true spatial power spectrum as opposed to delay spectrum.

19) Eq. 5 only holds under the assumption that V_uf is sampled for every \vec u (since u is generally frequency dependent). This is somewhat at odds with the definition in P3, which, through use of \vec u=\vec b/lambda, implies that V_uf is defined for a single baseline. In general, this is a very tricky and subtle issue that should be addressed carefully.
[Response] Eq. B4 (earlier eq. 5). We agree this is tricky indeed. Our intention is not to work with a single baseline but with thousands of them fairly densely packed. So the equations must be viewed as being used on these array of baselines which therefore fill the aperture plane fairly well. 

20) P4: would like to see P(k) treated in mK^2 units throughout the paper and use the correct constants rather than say P(k) \propto |V|^2
[Response] P(k) is now given in units of K^2 (Mpc/h)^3 throughout the paper 

21) P5: "Parsons et al. (2012)" should be Parsons et al. 2012a, as defined above.
[Response] Changed the citation

22) P6: "due to their spatial and spectral (chromatic) structure, contaminate the received signal" I'm not really clear on why this structure is specifically called out. The structure is more relevant for how to distinguish foregrounds from emission.
[Response] Restructured and re-worded S2.

23) P6: The discussion of characterizing foregrounds in this paragraph seems out of place. It reads more like something that belongs in the introduction
[Response] Restructured and re-worded S2. Moved this sentence to introduction

24) P8: "its Fourier transform" -> "its delay transform"
[Response] Restructured and re-worded S2

25) P8: "Nyquist sampled over" -> "contains"
[Response] Restructured and re-worded S2. The delay convnetions have been moved to appendix A.

26) footnote 22 belongs earlier in the paper
[Response] Removed this footnote because the term lag is not used in this paper

27) I suggest a geometric figure illustrated the correspondence between delay and sky to go along with P8.
[Response] Added a new figure A1 in appendix A that illustrates the radio interferometer delays and sign conventions used in the paper. 

28) P9: "transverse direction" define what it is transverse to
[Response] Defined as lying on the tangent plane to the celestial sphere

29) P9: cite Parsons et al 2012b for "horizon delay limits"
[Response] Cited Vedantham et al 2012 and Parsons et al 2012b for the horizon limit

30) P9: the "EoR window" as defined in this paper, is tailored to the MWA specifically here, but the EoR window exists as a concept applied to many telescopes. Maybe clarify that this is an MWA-specific EoR window.
[Response] Figure 1 (the axes and the wedge) is generic to all instruments at 185 MHz. The grating response has been specified to be MWA specific. 

Section 3:
31) Would like to see an explanation of what the data are to be used for.
[Response] The overall sceintific objectives of the MWA EoR observations are cited to be in Bowman et al.(2013) in what is now S5. 

32) P1: Should cite Tingay et al. 2013 and Lonsdale et al 2009 for descriptions of the instrument.
[Response] Already cited Tingay et al. 2013, Lonsdale et al 2009, and Bowman et al 2013 at the first mention of the MWA in the introduction. Also cited for the MWA instrument now in S5.

33) P1: Is there an appropriate citation for the beam model?
[Response] Sutinjo et al.(2014) is the appropriate reference for beam model used for MWA. It is cited now in S5.2. We however use a simpler model -- an array of isotropic elements.

34) S3.1 mixes discussion of real and simulated data. Would like to see these discussed separately.
[Response] They are now separated under S5 for the MWA example. The data and model are compared side by side now in figure 6 under S5.3. We also provide a separate simulations section S4. S3.1 is mostly related to MWA parameters. The only reference to simulations comes in the specification of Tsys. Moved paragraph on Tsys estimation from data as a modeling step to S5.2. Also see responses to #35 and #36.

35) P3: The Tsys = 95 K statement is incorrect. Perhaps the receiver temperature is meant?
[Response] Inferring Tsys accurately from data is a subject of active work within the MWA collaboration. For purposes of simulation and modeling the data, we simply estimate Tsys from data and input it to simulations.

36) "In our work, we have chosen a Tsys that matches the thermal noise observed in the data." Perhaps this could be quantified?
[Response] In S5.2 under Modeling subsection, we quantify how Tsys is estimated from the data as a modeling step to make simulations match the data. Essentially, thermal noise is computed from Fourier space well outside the foreground wedge whereby the foregrounds are robustly filtered out.

37) S3.2 is there a paper that can be cited for the MWA observing strategy?
[Response] There isn't a paper yet on MWA observing strategy, only a proposal to the MWA TAC. 

38) last P of S3.2: sidereal time should be given in hours and minutes only, without minus signs.
[Response] Changed as suggested.

39) S3.3 How is the flux scale set?
[Response] Calibration is done with ~2500 sources in the MWACS catalog whose flux scale was set by 3C32. We have cited Hurley-Walker et al (2014) for the MWACS paper.

40) S3.4 over what bandwidth is the delay transform taken? What is the center fequency?
[Response] Center frequency is 185 MHz. Bandwidth is 30.72 MHz. These are now specified in S3, S4.1 and S5.

41) Would like to see wedge plots done with |V|^2 put in mK^2 [h Mpc]^3 units
[Response] All figures now use units of K^2 (Mpc/h)^3

42) Would like to see a comparison of the MWA wedge with the PAPER wedge presented in Pober et al. 2013.
[Response] We discuss Pober et al. (2013) in the context of emission in delay bin close to the horizon limit termed as "edge brightening". See also response #66. A more detailed discussion is made difficult by the fact that the antenna elements are different. Hence, quantitative comparisons will not be straightforward. 

43) "This is shown later to be", please direct the reader to where.
[Response] After restructuring of various sections, this feature is discussed in S5.4.1

44) "Consequently, the contamination into the EoR window is also higher" please explain how this is done. This depends strongly on how steeply foreground emission rolls off outside of the wedge.
[Response] After restructuring of various sections, we removed this sentence but what we meant earlier is that spillover is proportional to emission in the wedge. Therefore, higher the emission higher is the spillover.

45) "Emission in the zenith pointing is more..." I don't follow this sentence. I think it is describing the orientation of the primary beam, and if so, perhaps the appropriate figure to be referenced to help clarify.
[Response] Yes, it is referring to the shape of the power pattern. With the restructured sections this sentence has been removed and described appropriately elsewhere.

Section 4: 

46) Figure 3: Should clarify that even though the beam is phased off-zenith, the delay spectrum is still phased to zenith.
[Response] Clarified as suggested in appendix A describing delay convnetions and captio to figure A1

47) Figure 3: As mentioned before, please use mK^2 [h^-1 Mpc]^3 units
[Response] Changed units to K^2 (Mpc/h)^3 (all figures)

48) Figure 4: what are the units? Power?
[Response] The power pattern is unitless (now in figure 4a, contours in figures 5 and 9a)

49) S4.2 "a point also supported by Pober et al ..." Is there an appropriate LOFAR reference in support of this as well?
[Response] We are not aware of LOFAR papers that emphasize effect of foregrounds from outside of primary beam on the power spectrum. We did find Yatawatta et al.(2013) discuss subtracting bright sources far away from primary field of view (only out to about 30 degrees away) but that is from the point of view of imaging, whereas Pober et al.(2015) (in prep.) and our paper specifically address the effect on the power spectrum.

50) "to avoid any artifacts from sampling this map" What artifacts are you referring to? Why is it necessary to deviate from the GSM?
[Response] We are referring to artifacts from undersampling. In this process or anywhere else, we do not deviate from the GSM. 

51) S4.2.2 "known to be devoid of" do you mean devoid, or just that it is missing some?
[Response] We mean bright point sources are knwon to have been removed from the input data sets used in making the GSM. Slightly re-worded this sentence (now in S4.2).

52) S4.2.2 0^\circ.85 mixing decimal and arcmin within this paragraph. please use only deg, arcmin, arc sec.
[Response] Mixing of units was not meant but now changed as suggested. For instance, 0^\circ .85 is now replaced with 0.85^\circ

53) S4.2.2 "we select point sources whose deconvolved major axes are equal to 0" please indicate what this implies, and why you chose these criteria.
[Response] This is to indicate a strict selection of point sources based on the deconvolved major axis. Modified the sentence to indicate reason for this choice.

54) "an all-sky foreground model consisting of both compact and diffuse emission", all-sky might be an overstatement, since neither of these catalogs cover the entire sky. This may be the first place in the text that "compact" is used to mean point-source. Is there a reason not to use "point source"? Compact does quite capture what is meant.
[Response] The NVSS and SUMSS catalogs are used only for bright point sources (>= 10 Jy) and at that flux density threshold it is reasonable to say that together they cover the entire sky. We use compact and point sources interchangeably. It depends on what follows the word -- if we are referring to emission we find it convenient to use "compact emission" whereas if we refer to the object itself, we prefer "point sources" instead of compact sources because the latter generally are used to refer to objects such as black holes, neutron stars, etc.

55) S4.3 "the fractional error in the delay spectrum" in what aspect of the delay spectrum? The amplitude?
[Response] Yes, we mean the amplitude using the usual error propagation. Modified the sentence to make this clear (now in S5.3). 

56) A lot of effort is spent quantifying the expected difference between simulations and models (and it is large!), but then you say "Our primary objective is to explore ... the foreground wedge". I would suggest saying that earlier and maybe explain why it is necessary to quantify the amplitude discrepancy between data and simulation, if indeed it is necessary.
[Response] In what is now S5.3 there are two primary objectives. We use MWA data as an example to match our simulations to. We show they match to within expected level of mismatch (which is what we demonstrate in S5.3). After that point, the next major objective is to explore the foreground wedge in detail through detailed simulations. The sentence has been modified in a way that none of these objectives is de-emphasized. Quantifying the difference is now strictly restricted to one subsection S5.3.

Section 5:
57) "The resulting sky emission is anisotropic" this probably doesn't warrant saying.
[Response] In the restructured sections, the enumerated list and this sentence have been removed.

58) "Baseline Orientation" it would be helpful to have a better motivation for the cuts you make in baseline orientation.
[Response] It is to make sure the bin centers are aligned along the cardinal and ordinal directions in one half-plane, namely, SE, E, NE, and N. In the restructured sections, the enumerated list and this sentence have been removed. We still use the same cuts in our study though but have removed it because the point has been tried to be conveyed without these details.

59) What is meant by "in any observing mode that tracks the object"? What object?
[Response] In the restructured sections, the enumerated list and this sentence have been removed.

60) I would like to see an exploration of simulated wedges with a few different beam patterns, particularly a flat (unity) one.
[Response] A new subsection "Role of Antenna Geometry" has been added under Simulations section which precisely discusses this. A flat primary beam will be similar to the dipole.

61) 5.1.1 "The signature is absent in the zenith pointing (bottom panel, Figure 8)". I'm not sure it is absent. I see some structure along the negative horizon delay.
[Response] Yes, there is a faint branch along the negative horizon delay but we are referring to the bright branch which is specifically due to the Galactic center. Qualified the sentence with "bright signature" being absent. This is now under S5.4.1 and figure 7.

62) 5.1.2 Should probably mention "resolving" structure earlier in the paper, and how that works for an interferometer.
[Response] In S5.4.2 we indicate the Fourier relationship means larger scale diffuse emission is measured only on shorter baselines. Some underlying mechanisms are already discussed now in S3 on Wide-field effects.

63) 5.1.3 "In the wide-field observations of the MWA" it is unnecessary to restrict this statement to just the MWA
[Response] In what is now S5.4.3, modified it to be a generic statement concerning all wide-field instruments as suggested.

64) 5.1.3 I think it might be a good idea to project the MWA beam into delay space and see how that structure compares to what you observe in your simulations.
[Response] We find that MWA beam on a uniform sky is very similar to MWA beam on a diffuse sky (what is now in figure 7, left panels) without the bright Galactic center signature. This is a combination of wide-field effects discussed in S3 and S4 and the fact that diffuse emission can be approximated to a uniform sky. We do not provide a separate figure due to this similarity and because it will require a considerable deviation from the narrative of the paper. 

65) The errors described in S5.3 and illustrated in Fig 10 seem distracting. Is the purpose of this paper to quantify the absolute levels of foreground contamination, or is it to describe the relative occupancy (the shape) of foreground contamination? If the latter, than perhaps the errors associated with the uncertainty in spectral index could be dropped?
[Response] This is now S5.5 and figure 8. Our objective is two-fold. One is to show our simulations match the data reasonably. Our error estimates are used to define what is considered reasonable and we confirm indeed they are reasonably matched. After that point, our objective is to describe the foreground features in the wedge. Old figure 10 (now figure 8) is also intended to serve as a prediction that with longer integration, thermal noise floor in the figure also lowers and thus the pitchfork features should become more obvious in data. The text and caption describing it has been re-worded to place lesser emphasis on the uncertainty.

66) I would like to see more discussion of whether the pitchfork is or is not present in Pober et al. 2013.
[Response] We believe it is present but at levels lower than that of the Galactic plane. But it is unclear from Pober et al 2013 to be able to quantify what part of it comes from the non-Galactic plane diffuse emission. We have added a paragraph towards the end of S3 under "Wide-field effects" to discuss a similar feature seen in Pober et al 2013 and Thyagarajan et al 2013. 

67) "we predict the presence of a three-pronged pitchfork", as above, are we really sure that this shape generalizes across instrument? Can you provide more evidence that it does?
[Response] The new subsection "Role of Antenna Geometry" (S4.3) shows delay spectra for different antenna shapes, namely, dipole, phased array, and dish and show that the pitchfork mechanism is indeed generic to all wide-field measurements. The precise amplitude of the pitchfork, of course, depends on the antenna beam properties.

Section 6:
68) "the spillover caused by the instrument's transfer function"... this statement is not supported by anything mentioned so far. Please support.
[Response] The instrumental spectral transfer function refers to the response of the instrumental bandpass shape as a convolution in delay transform equation. We have mentioned this to have been discussed in Parsons et al 2012b and Thyagarajan 2013 in what is now S2.1 while describing the delay space coordinates. Modified text in a few places to emphasize that the transfer function we are emphasizing is in the spectral direction and not the one due to the primary beam although we take into account the full nature of this transfer function.

69) "These can be weighted appropriately during data analysis", should perhaps discuss inverse covariance weighting and how these simulations could inform that for optimal weighting. This is mentioned briefly at the end of this section, but that could be elaborated on.
[Response] Added a couple of sentences at the end of S6 to indicate that covariances estimated between delay transform bins can be naturally fed into the covariance weighted scheme of Liu et al 2014a, 2014b. Also related to #11.

70) You mention a threshold of baseline lengths at 30m. What motivates this specific length? How sharply does the effect appear on short baselines?
[Response] Removal of baselines longer than 30m has no further effect on foreground contamination. The plot with stars joined by solid line in Figure 13 (now figure 11) shows how the foreground contamination is mitigated progressively as eastward baselines are discarded from short ones to long ones. We have added a sentence stating our motivation for the choice of 30 m. It must be emphasized that we do not mean all baselines < 30m are discarded. Only the eastward baselines of lengths < 30m are discarded.

71) "the latter limit is achieved with a mere 5% loss" this is an MWA-specific statement and should be qualified as such. 
[Response] Specified in the first paragraph of S6 that we use MWA as an example and the penultimate paragraph in S6. Also modified the conclusions to make it a generic statement that such a technique "potentially mitigate foregrounds significantly".

Section 7:

72) "Simulating in all important respects the response of the MWA" this is a bold statement. Perhaps temper it?
[Response] Changed "all" to "many" leaving room for improvements to simulations.

